outline.md, before:

## Paper  Outline

### Introduction
  - There are many tacit premises that go unstated in Street's argument; some of them are false 
 - Street has failed to establish her conclusion, and has instead shown something uninteresting
  - Her conclusion: "Contemporary realist theories of value [are . . .] [in]compatible with natural science"
  - She has shown:
     - people who's only evidence for their moral beliefs are their moral dispositions are unlikely to be correct about those beliefs
  - this is something we already knew from history
     - most people only follow their moral dispositions
     - history has been the story of large-scale moral errors after moral errors, e.g. slavery, holocaust, etc.

### Reasons vs. Explanations
  - There is a difference between a person's *reasons* for believing that p--i.e. one's rational justification--and the best *explanation* of his/her believing that p--i.e. what actually accounts for his/her belief. 

### The Genetic Fallacy
  X believes that p just because of y
  Hence, X's belief that p is unjustified	
  - examples
  - Inferences of this form are invalid because there is a difference between rational justification and the best explanation of belief

### Evidence is Objective
  - Two views about evidence: subjective vs objective
  - Objective = the evidence or rational justification that any given person has for his/her belief that p does not depend on the consitution of human psychology
  - If human beings had a different psychology/phenomenology--if they felt differently, or began to have different dispositions--this would not change evidential relations
  - Subjective = ~ Objective

### Street's Main Argument

1. Our moral dispositions are evolved. 
2. If they are evolved, then they were either selected for directly or indirectly.
3. Hence, our moral dispositions were selected for directly or indirectly [from 1, 2]
4. They were not selected for directly. 
5. Hence, our moral dispositions were selected for indirectly. [from 3, 4]
6. If they were selected for indirectly, then it is very unlikely that they are veridical. 
7. Hence, it is very unlikely that our moral dispositions are dispositions to true beliefs. [from 5, 6]

  - this argument is sound

### Street's Main Conclusion
  - Her conclusion: "Contemporary realist theories of value [are . . .] [in]compatible with natural science"
  - strictly speaking, this is different from the conclusion of her main argument
  - but with two supplemental premises, it's easy to see the connection
    (S1) realism about value assumes that value is knowable/known--it wouldn't be worth the title "realism" if it didn't
    (S2) natural science (in particular: biology) shows that we don't have knowledge of value (from the conclusion of the main argument)    
    - hence, natural science is incompatible with realism
   
### The Conclusion of Street's Main Argument Does Not Entail Her Second Supplemental Premise

### Intrinsic vs. Extrinsic Probability

### Evolution of Belief vs Evolution of Feelings
  - beliefs cannot evolve
  - tendencies to believe can evolve, where one has a tendency to believe that p iff it's psychologically easy to believe that p (i.e. believing p reduces stress, reduces anxiety, increases pleasure, is intriniscally desireable)

### Evidence for Morality
  - no ethicists draw moral conclusions from their moral dispositions
  - our moral dispositions are a mess
  - instead, they offer evidence
    - Kantians point to satisfaction of (various formulations of) the categorical imperative
    - Consequentialists point to causal relations between actions and other events
    - etc
 
### Objection: Dispositions are Our Only Grip on Morality
  - the various ethical positions are the result of trying to bring our moral dispositions into reflective equilibrium with one another
  - so saying that ethicists of those stripes are providing evidence is premature: they **think** they have evidence only because they are one step removed from the problem

### Moral Dispositions vs Moral Intuitions
  - the two are not the same
  - many (perhaps most) of my moral intuitions disagree with my moral dispositions
  - arguably I (and everyone else) is disposed to regard members of out groups as morally suspicious
  - cite psychology study

### Reply to the Objection
  - the various ethical positions are the result of trying to bring our moral **intuitions** into reflective equilibrium with one another
  - it's n

Commit message:

outline: extreme epistemic caution, and conclusion of Street's argument

outline.md, after:

## Paper  Outline

### Introduction
  - There are many tacit premises that go unstated in Street's argument; some of them are false 
 - Street has failed to establish her conclusion, and has instead shown something uninteresting
  - Her conclusion: "Contemporary realist theories of value [are . . .] [in]compatible with natural science"
  - She has shown:
     - people who's only evidence for their moral beliefs are their moral dispositions are unlikely to be correct about those beliefs
  - this is something we already knew from history
     - most people only follow their moral dispositions
     - history has been the story of large-scale moral errors after moral errors, e.g. slavery, holocaust, etc.

### Reasons vs. Explanations
  - There is a difference between a person's *reasons* for believing that p--i.e. one's rational justification--and the best *explanation* of his/her believing that p--i.e. what actually accounts for his/her belief. 

### The Genetic Fallacy
  X believes that p just because of y
  Hence, X's belief that p is unjustified	
  - examples
  - Inferences of this form are invalid because there is a difference between rational justification and the best explanation of belief

### Evidence is Objective
  - Two views about evidence: subjective vs objective
  - Objective = the evidence or rational justification that any given person has for his/her belief that p does not depend on the consitution of human psychology
  - If human beings had a different psychology/phenomenology--if they felt differently, or began to have different dispositions--this would not change evidential relations
  - Subjective = ~ Objective

### Street's Main Argument

1. Our moral dispositions are evolved. 
2. If they are evolved, then they were either selected for directly or indirectly.
3. Hence, our moral dispositions were selected for directly or indirectly [from 1, 2]
4. They were not selected for directly. 
5. Hence, our moral dispositions were selected for indirectly. [from 3, 4]
6. If they were selected for indirectly, then it is very unlikely that they are veridical. 
7. Hence, it is very unlikely that our moral dispositions are dispositions to true beliefs. [from 5, 6]

  - this argument is sound

### Street's Main Conclusion
  - Her conclusion: "Contemporary realist theories of value [are . . .] [in]compatible with natural science"
  - strictly speaking, this is different from the conclusion of her main argument
  - but with two supplemental premises, it's easy to see the connection
    (S1) realism about value assumes that value is knowable/known--it wouldn't be worth the title "realism" if it didn't
    (S2) natural science (in particular: biology) shows that we don't have knowledge of value (from the conclusion of the main argument)    
    - hence, natural science is incompatible with realism
   
### The Conclusion of Street's Main Argument Does Not Entail Her Second Supplemental Premise
  If our moral dispositions are evolved, then it is very unlikely that our moral dispositions are dispositions to true beliefs
  Hence, natural science entails that we don't have a knowledge of value
  - this is invalid
  - possible:
	- Jack's moral dispositions are the result of evolution by natural selection and it is very unlikely that they point to true propositions
	- however, his dispositions are no part of what he takes as evidence for the moral claims that he believes
	- as it happens, Jack's moral beliefs are true and, because his evidence was good enough, constitute knowledge
  - in this case, the premises are all true and the conclusion is false
  -reply:
	- we already know Street is assuming that we believe ethical claims **just because** of our dispositions
	- does this allow her to derive the supplemental premise she needs?
  - adding the premise that we (everyone?) believe ethical claims **just because** of our dispositions turns this into an instance of the genetic fallacy
	- the best explanation of our beliefs aside, we should be asking: what is the evidence?
	- Street herself seems to admit this elsewhere: "If the causal process that gave rise to one’s belief that P is such that (as far as one knows) there is no reason to think that it would lead one to form true beliefs about the subject matter in question—and if (as far as one knows) there is no other good reason to believe that P—then one should suspend belief that P" (from David's article)

### Extreme Epistemic Caution
  - Street has a way out:
	- if evidential relations themselves depend up on the constitution of our psychology or on our phenomenology, and we've just shown that our phenomenology has been altered by evolution to favorvalue claims, then shouldn't there be a kind of extreme epistemic caution required to justify these claims? 
	- she then just has to show that moral claims lack the additional epistemic backing to conclude that they do not consitute knowledge
  - this seems like a plausible way to reply
	- suppose you're prone to a certain optical illusion, e.g. that black and blue dresses look white and gold to you
	- normally, when you form beliefs about the color of clothes you move quickly from how things appear to you to beliefs about their colors
	- but this time your friend Molly has asked you--at the last minute, on the morning of her wedding--to pick out a veil for her
	- only thing: the veil has to be white and gold--those are the colors of her dress
	- so you rush to the wedding store and look through the veils
	- you find one that looks white and gold, and are about to buy it
	- but would you be justified in buying it? Do you have good enough evidence to buy it?
	- It would seem that, though most people in such a circumstance would have enough evidence, you do not
	- Because of what you know about how your phenomenology is misleading, an extra stringent epistemological standard applies	

### Intrinsic vs. Extrinsic Probability

### Evolution of Belief vs Evolution of Feelings
  - beliefs cannot evolve
  - tendencies to believe can evolve, where one has a tendency to believe that p iff it's psychologically easy to believe that p (i.e. believing p reduces stress, reduces anxiety, increases pleasure, is intriniscally desireable)

### Evidence for Morality
  - no ethicists draw moral conclusions from their moral dispositions
  - our moral dispositions are a mess
  - instead, they offer evidence
    - Kantians point to satisfaction of (various formulations of) the categorical imperative
    - Consequentialists point to causal relations between actions and other events
    - etc
 
### Objection: Dispositions are Our Only Grip on Morality
  - the various ethical positions are the result of trying to bring our moral dispositions into reflective equilibrium with one another
  - so saying that ethicists of those stripes are providing evidence is premature: they **think** they have evidence only because they are one step removed from the problem

### Moral Dispositions vs Moral Intuitions
  - the two are not the same
  - many (perhaps most) of my moral intuitions disagree with my moral dispositions
  - arguably I (and everyone else) is disposed to regard members of out groups as morally suspicious
  - cite psychology study

### Reply to the Objection
  - the various ethical positions are the result of trying to bring our moral **intuitions** into reflective equilibrium with one another
  - it's n
