paper.md, before:

### Module 1 : The Genetic Fallacy

Consider inferences of the following form:

	(1) The cause of P's belief that q is C.
	--------------------
	(2) Hence, P's belief that q is unjustified.

These inferences are invalid because it is possible for all of their premises to be true while their conclusions are false. The fact that a person is caused to believe something tells us nothign about the rational justification for his/her view.


### Module 2 : Reasons vs. Explanations

There is a difference between a person's *reasons* for believing that p--i.e. one's rational justification--and the best *explanation* of his/her believing that p--i.e. what actually accounts for his/her belief. 

Consider Smith. Smith is a registered member of the Green Party. He registered for the party because he was impressed by Ralph Nader's prudence, intelligence, and philanthropy--all of which he witnessed first hand while visiting his uncle (suppose). Upon induction into the Green Party, however, Smith was brainwashed to believe that Nader is the best presidential candidate. As a result, he cannot help but believe it to be the case.

It seems true to say that Smith has reasons for believing that Nader is the best candidate. He has observed Nader first hand, and has seen that he is prudent, intelligent, and generous. These observations surely count as reasons--albeit defeasible reasons--that Nader is the best candidate for the job. Nevertheless, these reasons are not the explanation of Smith's belief. The explanation is the brainwashing. That alone is sufficient for Smith to believe as he does.

Contrast Smith with Jones. Jones believes that human beings never landed on the moon. She believes this because she has done extensive research on the conspiracy theory--on the pictures supposedly taken on the moon, on the magnetic fields between it and the earth, about the frailty of the human body in space, etc.--and has found it all very compelling. In this case, the explanation of Jones' belief is her reasons: the defeasible (and perhaps defeated) evidence she has for it. The evidence is what makes her believe as she does.


### Module 3 : Evidence is Objective

Contrast two views about evidence: one says that evidence is subjective, the other that it is objective. To say that evidence is subjective is to say that part of what makes something (some observation, or measurment, or experimental result) evidence for some view is whether or not human beings bear certain psychological or phenomenological dispositions. Call this the the *subjectivist view*: evidential relations are (at least partially) grounded on human psychology. To say that evidence is objective, alternatively, is just the negation: facts about human psychology and phenomenology are no part of what makes anything evidence for anything else. Thus the *objectivist view* is that evidential relations are not grounded in human psychology.

Quine seems to have had a subjectivist view of evidence.

Commit message:

examples of genetic fallacy, fallacy in terms of explanation, MOD genetic fallacy

paper.md, after:

### Module 1 : The Genetic Fallacy

Consider inferences of the following form:

	(1) P believes that q only because of E.
	--------------------
	(2) Hence, P's belief that q is unjustified.

Here are some examples:

	Jim believes that abortion should be illegal only because he wants to control women.
	--------
	Hence, Jim's belief is unjustified.

	Jan believes that global climate change is real only because she is a Democrat.
	-------
	Hence, Jan's belief is unjustified.

	Francine believes that babies are fun only because she is a woman.
	-------
	Hence, Francine's belief is unjustified.

These inferences are as common as they are tempting, but they are all invalid. They are examples of what's called the *Genetic Fallacy*, schematized above. That schema is fallacious because it is possible for all of its premises to be true while its conclusions are false. The fact that a person's belief can be explained tells us nothing about the rational justification (if any) for his/her view. To think otherwise, it seems, is to conflate reasons with explanations.


### Module 2 : Reasons vs. Explanations

There is a difference between a person's *reasons* for believing that p--i.e. one's rational justification--and the best *explanation* of his/her believing that p--i.e. what actually accounts for his/her belief. 

Consider Smith. Smith is a registered member of the Green Party. He registered for the party because he was impressed by Ralph Nader's prudence, intelligence, and philanthropy--all of which he witnessed first hand while visiting his uncle (suppose). Upon induction into the Green Party, however, Smith was brainwashed to believe that Nader is the best presidential candidate. As a result, he cannot help but believe it to be the case.

It seems true to say that Smith has reasons for believing that Nader is the best candidate. He has observed Nader first hand, and has seen that he is prudent, intelligent, and generous. These observations surely count as reasons--albeit defeasible reasons--that Nader is the best candidate for the job. Nevertheless, these reasons are not the explanation of Smith's belief. The explanation is the brainwashing. That alone is sufficient for Smith to believe as he does.

Contrast Smith with Jones. Jones believes that human beings never landed on the moon. She believes this because she has done extensive research on the conspiracy theory--on the pictures supposedly taken on the moon, on the magnetic fields between it and the earth, about the frailty of the human body in space, etc.--and has found it all very compelling. In this case, the explanation of Jones' belief is her reasons: the defeasible (and perhaps defeated) evidence she has for it. The evidence is what makes her believe as she does.


### Module 3 : Evidence is Objective

Contrast two views about evidence: one says that evidence is subjective, the other that it is objective. To say that evidence is subjective is to say that part of what makes something (some observation, or measurment, or experimental result) evidence for some view is whether or not human beings bear certain psychological or phenomenological dispositions. Call this the the *subjectivist view*: evidential relations are (at least partially) grounded on human psychology. To say that evidence is objective, alternatively, is just the negation: facts about human psychology and phenomenology are no part of what makes anything evidence for anything else. Thus the *objectivist view* is that evidential relations are not grounded in human psychology.

Quine seems to have had a subjectivist view of evidence.
