

§0. Abstract
Sharon Street has declared that moral realism faces a “Darwinian Dilemma”: it is
inconsistent with evolutionary biology. I here clarify Street’s argument for
this conclusion, avoiding needless objections. Then I show how even this
strengthened version fails to rationally discredit a version of realism on which
the moral truths had no effect on the evolution of our moral psychology.

§1. Introduction
  Most people believe that scientific claims are true. They get into airplanes,
drive in cars, rely on GPS’s, take medications, and undergo genetic testing.
They do these things because they believe the science behind these inventions.
  Most people believe that ethical claims are true. They vote their consciences,
read op-ed columns, argue with relatives, end friendships, and punish
wrongdoers. They do these things because they believe the ethics behind them.
  Prima facie, there is no contradiction in this. People believe in science and
they believe in ethics. Each has its place in their lives, and each influences
their lives greatly. But as beliefs in disparate domains of knowledge, our
beliefs about science and ethics seem to have little to no bearing on one
another.
  Sharon Street (2006) thinks this is wrong. She thinks that moral realism --
the view that there are mind- and language- independent moral facts -- is at
odds with evolution by natural selection. On her view, what biologists say about
the science of evolution means that what the ethicists say about goodness and
badness is wrong.
  Street’s argument for this conclusion is simple. Our moral dispositions are an
evolved trait. So, if there are moral facts, then they either influenced the
evolution of this trait or they did not. Unfortunately, neither of these options
is acceptable. Hence, there are no moral facts.
  If Street is right, then we have to give up either science or ethics. Either
way, the results for the way we live our lives are catastrophic.
Fortunately, Street is not right. I here defend the view that moral facts did
not influence the evolution of our moral dispositions. I claim that Street’s
arguments do not render this position unacceptable to the realist. I begin in §2
by dealing with some preliminaries. What is moral realism? What is moral
psychology? Then, in §3 I clarify and motivate Street’s case against the
realist. In §4 I elaborate upon the view that I take to avoid Street’s
criticism. Then, in §5-§8 I defend the view against her criticism. The result is
a way of dodging Street’s “Darwinian Dilemma”.

§2. Preliminaries
  To be able to fairly evaluate the case that Street has made against moral
realism, some terminology should first be explained.
  Begin with with moral psychology. It seems true to say that there is a way it
feels to consider a bad action, and likewise for a good one. Bad actions present
themselves a certain way to us--they feel a certain way. The thought of rape,
for example, produces a certain kind of moral feeling. The thought of
deliberately harming a child produces another. The thought of pushing a fat man
off of a bridge to stop a runaway trolley still another. These feelings, while
different, are very similar -- similar enough that we take them to be instances
of the same kind. By our “moral psychology” or “moral phenomenology”, then, let
us have in mind these feelings.
  Contrast our moral psychology with our moral beliefs. We believe that rape is
wrong. We believe that deliberately harming children is wrong. And (some of us)
believe that pushing people off of bridges to stop trolleys is wrong. These are
matters about which we can, and often do, disagree with others. They are things
we seem capable of being mistaken over. They are things that might be true and
that might be false. The same cannot be said of our moral psychology. One cannot
disagree with another person over one’s moral psychology. One’s moral feelings
cannot be mistaken. The way one feels cannot be true.
  Despite the differences between moral psychology and moral belief, the two are
clearly related to one another. Moral psychology is very often used as evidence
(if only tacitly) for moral beliefs. Many people believe that rape is wrong
because of what it’s like to consider rape, that deliberately harming children
is wrong because of what it’s like to imagine harming children, and so on. At
the very least, the best explanation of why many people hold the moral beliefs
that they do is that they have the moral psychology that they do. This point
will come up again.
  Moral realism is the conjunction of two claims: (i) that some of our moral
beliefs are true solely in virtue of mind- and language- independent reality,
and (ii) that those beliefs constitute knowledge. Let’s unpack this. Consider a
belief like “the Grand Canyon is pretty”. If this belief is true, what is it
true in virtue of? In part it is true in virtue of the physical makeup of the
Grand Canyon: it’s size, its shape, its color, the way the light hits it. It is
also true (in part) because of how human beings feel. It is pleasurable for most
human beings to look at the Grand Canyon. It gives them goose bumps. Thus, “The
Grand Canyon is pretty” has two different truthmakers: the way the Grand Canyon
is, and the way human beings feel. For this reason, this belief is not true
solely in virtue of mind- and language-independent reality. It is not what some
would call “an objective fact”. It is “subjective”. Contrast this belief with a
belief like “Obama became president in 2008”. What is the truthmaker for this
claim? -- that a certain man was elected in the United States on a given year.
And that is the only truthmaker for the claim. Notice that the content of human
beings’ minds is no part of what makes this claim true. Hence, we would say that
this claim is true solely in virtue of mind- and language- independent reality.
It is an objective fact. The moral realist, then, simply says that moral beliefs
are more like the belief about Obama than the belief about the Grand Canyon. The
content of human minds is no part of what makes them true. They are not mere
expressions of feeling. They are objective, not subjective.
  Street’s statement of moral realism is slightly different:
The defining claim of realism about value [. . .] is that there are at least
some evaluative facts or truths that hold independently of all our evaluative
attitudes. 110
Note that she doesn’t include anything about our knowing about said values in
her statement of realism. I think this was a mistake for two reasons. The first
is purely semantic: it conflicts with the way that people typically use the word
“realist”. Suppose I said that I was a scientific realist. I hold that
scientific claims are objective: true solely in virtue of the way mind- and
language- independent reality is. But I also claim that no one has any
scientific knowledge whatsoever. Think you know about electrons? False. Think
you know anything about the external world? False. It seems that if I said these
things, I couldn’t properly be described as a scientific realist. One must admit
that we have at least some knowledge about D in order to count as a realist
about D. The second reason is specific to Street. The statement of moral realism
that she provides is a metaphysical claim: it’s a claim about what
metaphysically makes (or grounds) the truth of moral claims. But the arguments
that she runs are irrelevant to the metaphysics of morals. What they seem
relevant to is the epistemology of morals. Hence, I think it best to broaden the
target of Street’s attack. It will make her argument more plausible.
  Last point before moving on. Street does not talk about moral psychology.
Instead, she talks about moral  “tendencies” (citations) and “dispositions”
(citations). I think this too is unhelpful for two reasons. First, Street is
going to be making an evolutionary argument. Evolutionary arguments depend on
our ability to claim that certain traits are heritable, i.e. able to be passed
down, by genetics, from one generation to another. But tendencies and
dispositions -- whatever they are -- aren’t obviously traits coded for by genes.
Hence, they aren’t obviously heritable. Our moral psychology, in contrast, is
pretty straightforwardly a result of the biological structure of our brains. And
our brains certainly are coded for by our genes. So by talking about moral
psychology, we sidestep this potential concern and keep the conversation
squarely focused on a heritable trait. Second, almost no one uses their moral
tendencies and dispositions as evidence for their moral views. “I see that I
have the tendency to act to promote the lives of my children. That must be a
good thing to do.” No one reasons in this way. But people do genuinely reason
from the moral feelings that they have. And, since Street’s argument is going to
try to undercut the epistemic grounds for moral realism, it seems better to keep
the focus on the trait that is actually relevant to the epistemology of
morality.

§3. A Darwinian Dilemma?
  Street’s “Darwinian Dilemma” begins with the claim that our moral psychology
is an evolved trait. As she puts it:
[N]atural selection has had a tremendous direct influence on what I have called
our more basic evaluative tendencies[.] 120
There are two parts to the argument for this claim. The first involves
demonstrating that moral psychology is in fact a trait -- i.e. a feature (or
phenotype) of an organism capable of being passed down from parent to offspring
by the transfer of genetic material. Street does not say much to justify this
claim except to point to the emerging field of evolutionary psychology.
“According to [evolutionary psychology], human cognitive traits are (in some
cases) just as susceptible to Darwinian explanation as human physical traits are
(in some cases).” (113) But we actually already saw an argument in the last
section for this view anyway. Our moral psychology is presumably completely
determined by our brains, and our brains are coded for by our genes. So, on the
face of it, it seems obvious that our moral psychology should be a heritable
trait.
The second part of the argument is an inference to the best explanation. Street
presents evidence that (she claims) is best explained by admitting that moral
psychology has actually been subject to evolutionary forces. There are two such
pieces of evidence. The first is the broad agreement we see in the moral
psychologies of people living in different times, cultures, and socio-economic
levels. It would seem that there is a kind of core set of moral feelings that
almost everyone has. For example:
The fact that something would promote one’s survival is a reason in favor of it.
The fact that something would promote the interests of a family member is a
reason to do it. 
We have greater obligations to help our own children than we do to help complete
strangers. 
The fact that someone has treated one well is a reason to treat that person well
in return. 
The fact that someone is altruistic is a reason to admire, praise, and reward
him or her. 
The fact that someone has done one deliberate harm is a reason to shun that
person or seek his or her punishment. 115
(1)-(6) feel right to most people, and their denials feel wrong. In view of the
sheer number of moral beliefs that one could possibly have moral feelings about,
it is amazing that so diverse a set of human beings -- subject to varying
circumstances and cultural norms -- would yet agree on all of these points. But
this is easily explained by the hypothesis that moral psychology was subject to
evolutionary forces. For, if there was one among many competing moral
psychologies that made a big difference in the fitness of its bearers (all else
being equal), then it’s reasonable to think that such a trait would have swept
to fixation in the human population. And in that case, we’d see the kind of
continuity amongst otherwise disparate subjects that we do.
  The second piece of evidence is the continuity we observe of our moral
psychology in nature. Street puts the point well:
Like us, individual chimpanzees seem to experience -- at some basic motivational
level -- actions that would promote their survival or help their offspring as in
some way “called for.” More strikingly, and again at some basic motivational
level, chimpanzees seem to experience the fact that another chimpanzee has
helped them, whether by sharing food, grooming them, or supporting their
position within the group hierarchy, as “counting in favor of” assisting that
other individual in similar ways. 117
This continuity is likewise easily explained in evolutionary terms. Evolution by
natural selection is a slow, incremental process. Many small changes are made
over a very long time. Hence, we expect to see the kind of continuity of
phenotypes -- some “more developed” than others -- amongst species with common
ancestors. Some of the species will (for environmental reasons) have accumulated
more small changes than other species with respect to a trait. This then is an
elegant explanation of this surprising continuity. Hence, moral psychology is an
evolved trait.
  Given, then, that our moral psychology appears to be an evolved trait we can
ask a further question: how was it selected? There are two and only two ways for
a trait to evolve. It can be selected for directly or indirectly. A trait is
selected for iff organisms with that trait are fitter (have a greater propensity
to leave offspring) than those without the trait, all else being equal.
Selection is then direct iff the trait itself is the cause of the fitness
increase, and indirect otherwise. Street contends that the evolution of our
moral psychology was due to direct selection. Moral psychology seems like it
would have been the cause of huge fitness advantages/disadvantages. She says:
It is clear, for instance, how fatal to reproductive success it would be to
judge that the fact that something would endanger one’s survival is a reason to
do it, or that the fact that someone is kin is a reason to harm that individual.
A creature who accepted such evaluative judgements would run itself off cliffs,
seek out its predators, and assail its offspring, resulting in the speedy
elimination of it and its evaluative tendencies from the world . 114
I actually find this line of thinking unconvincing. In part this is because
merely judging that “endanger[ing] one’s survival is a reason” to do something
couldn’t possibly have the effects she suggests. Merely thinking about reasons
doesn’t affect fitness. What would have the effects on fitness would be actually
doing the thing that endangers one’s survival. So in this case the selection on
moral psychology actually appears to be indirect. On the other hand, it’s hard
to find armchair biology very convincing -- especially when it’s about what
traits count as adaptations (i.e. that are fitness enhancing). One of the great
traps of armchair biology is that anything can be made to seem an adaptation if
one’s imagination is good enough. And likewise anything can seem maladaptive in
the right light. For example, it’s plausible that ancient man had false beliefs
about who his kin were and about what would promote his survival. Suppose it was
common amongst ancient members of our species to believe that draining one’s
blood was a good way to eliminate impurities and thus promote survival (as we
know it was for some time). Someone who judged that something’s promoting
survival was a reason to do it might well cut themselves and bleed out. How then
would this person pass on his/her moral psychology? Answer: he/she wouldn’t. So
how do we know that direct selection of our moral psychology wasn’t thwarted by
false beliefs in just this way? How do we know that it didn’t evolve indirectly
by piggy-backing on some other trait? In short: we don’t. Not from what Street
has given us. 
  So how did moral psychology evolve? I actually think that as far as Street’s
argument is concerned it doesn’t matter. It’s an unnecessary flash point. Hence,
I propose we officially drop it from her statement of the problem. We’ll see
that all she needs to get her argument off the ground is that moral psychology
is an evolved trait.
  We are now in a position to state the dilemma. Street states her dilemma as a
matter of declaring a relationship:
The basic problem for realism is that it needs to take a position on what
relation there is, if any, between the selective forces that have influenced the
content of our evaluative judgements, on the one hand, and the independent
evaluative truths that realism posits, on the other. 121
I find this unclear and unhelpful. It’s not obvious what she is demanding the
realist provide. She says she wants “a relation”. But the way most philosophers
use the word “relation” only objects -- only things (horses, houses, electrons,
etc.) -- bear relations to one another. (Schaffer citation, relations require
relata) But forces and truths -- what Street is demanding a relation for --
aren’t objects. And actually I’m not really sure what categories they even
belong in. This is another unnecessary flash point. I think all she wants the
realist to answer is this: did the truthmakers of moral claims affect the way
our moral psychology evolved -- and if so, how? The dilemma thus has two horns:
either the truthmakers of moral claims affected the way our moral psychology
evolved or they didn’t. Either way, Street will claim, the realist is in
trouble. The argument for this final premise is a somewhat tortured shotgun
blast -- a let’s-prove-it-by-examining-every-possibility-we-can-think-of
argument. So I will not rehearse it here. Instead, I am going to take up just
the part that applies to the horn that I intend to take.

§4. The Negative View
The solution I propose is to embrace the negative view: that the truthmakers of
moral claims did not affect the way our moral psychology evolved. Call a moral
realist that adopts such a view a negative realist. The negative realist says
that moral psychology did not evolve as it did in any way because of the
truthmakers of moral claims. It would have evolved as it did whether or not
moral claims were true
I think this view is plausible for reasons independent of Street’s argument.
Moral properties do not seem to be the kinds of properties involved in causal
relations. If they were, presumably we could just detect and study them
scientifically. But we can’t detect and study them via scientific means. So
moral properties aren’t involved in causal relations. But if they aren’t
involved in causal relations, then they can’t have affected evolutionary
processes one way or the other. They can’t have made some traits more
advantageous than others. They can’t have promoted survival. And so on. This
plausible view of moral properties seems to demand that moral realists be
negative realists in exactly the sense I’ve specified.
  By taking the negative position, the realist is playing into Street’s hand
somewhat. The realist has admitted that the truthmakers of moral claims did not
affect the evolution of moral psychology. Hence, it doesn’t matter whether
Street has claimed that moral psychology was selected for directly or not.
Either way -- whether it was moral psychology itself or some other trait being
selected for -- the forces which determined the constitution of our moral
psychology would have been unaffected by --  and thus random with respect to --
the truth of moral claims. Consider a similar example: the forces which shaped
the Grand Canyon were random with respect to its beauty. If the Grand Canyon
happens to be beautiful, this was by random chance. If some bit of our moral
psychology happens to be veridical, this is likewise by random chance. This is
because in both cases the relevant forces were unaffected by either the truth or
beauty of the thing in question.
  The negative realist’s admission of randomness is not without its price.
Random picking is fine when doing so from a pool of mostly good choices.
Unfortunately, there was no such friendly pool from which evolution randomly
chose our moral psychology. This was noted earlier. The pool of possible moral
beliefs dwarfs the pool of true moral beliefs by orders of magnitude. One thing
Street is very good at is driving home just how many alternative moral beliefs
there are:
Imagine, for instance, that we had evolved more along the lines of lions, so
that males in relatively frequent circumstances had a strong unreflective
evaluative tendency to experience the killing of offspring that were not his own
as “demanded by the circumstances,” and so that females, in turn, experienced no
strong unreflective tendency to ‘‘hold it against’’ a male when he killed her
offspring in such circumstances, on the contrary becoming receptive to his
advances soon afterwards. 120
Just as picking randomly from a jar is unlikely to produce a red marble when
reds are outnumbered 1000 to 1, so too is it unlikely that that a randomly
constituted moral psychology would point to true beliefs. We are thus left with
the following conclusion: it is unlikely that our moral psychology points to
true beliefs.
  Things are starting to look grim for the negative realist. Fortunately,
nothing that has been said formally contradicts his/her position. To do that
Street would need to (at the very least) to show how what has been said entails
that we’re unjustified in believing moral claims. Perhaps at this point that
doesn’t seem to be so hard. My goal for the remainder of this paper is to
consider what I take to be the most plausible arguments against the negative
realist. While all are plausible, I claim that none is ultimately successful.
Hence, I say that the negative realist has escaped the dilemma. In brief, the
arguments are as follows:
Our moral psychology probably points to false beliefs, we follow our psychology,
so we probably have false beliefs.
It would be a huge coincidence if evolution guided us to the right beliefs;
there are no such coincidences.
Moral psychology is ultimately the only evidence anyone has for morality; this
shows us our only evidence is no good.
We’d think as we do even if the claims were false; hence, our process is
unreliable.
I will address each of these arguments in turn.

§5.0 The Argument from Probability
  It might seem as though the negative realist’s admission of randomness is all
one needs to show that his/her position is defunct. For, if it is very unlikely
that our moral psychology points to true beliefs, and most of our moral beliefs
correspond to our moral psychology, then probably most of our moral beliefs are
false. But if realism is true, then it’s not the case that probably most of our
moral beliefs are false. Hence, realism is false. Street seems to have had this
in mind when she said:
If we [agree . . .] that our evaluative judgements have been tremendously shaped
by Darwinian influence, then we are left with the implausible skeptical
conclusion that our evaluative judgements are in all likelihood mostly off
track, for our system of evaluative judgements is revealed to be utterly
saturated and contaminated with illegitimate influence. [emphasis mine] 122
What should the negative realist make of this?

§5.1 Probable Given the Evidence
  I think that the solution to this problem is to insist that the probability of
an event is always relative to a pool of evidence. Probabilities are almost
never stagnant (quantum mechanics aside). When that pool of evidence changes, so
too does the probability. That after all is what probability is: a way of
quantifying the strength of evidence we have about what is going to happen.
The assessment of probability for an event always begins with its base rate. The
base rate R of an event type E = (df) the probability that any event of type E
will occur, calculated as the average probability of each prior instance. One
calculates the base rate knowing nothing about the particulars of E’s instances.
The base rate is what you would calculate if all you knew were the rates of
occurrence of prior E type events.
Consider an example. Suppose that in recorded history there have been 100,000
people who have smoked at least a pack of cigarettes a day for 20 years. Suppose
that among them 12,000 developed lung cancer. Taking nothing else into account
we can say that the base rate of getting lung cancer for a person who smokes a
pack a day for 20 years is 12%. The base rate of an event reflects the
probability of that event with respect to a certain bare-minimum pool of
evidence.
Now consider a more complicated example. Suppose we are trying to figure out the
probability that it will rain at a certain place on a given day in June -- say:
June 22nd. Suppose we work for the weather channel. Assume that reliable records
have been kept about the weather at this place for 100 years. And say that 30 of
such years were years in which it rained. The base rate of its raining on June
22nd at this place is thus 30%. Now, June 20th arrives and our viewership wants
to know the likelihood of rain on the 22nd. There is now additional evidence
which we can bring to bear on this event. We can see that there is a certain
storm system at such-and-such a position from this place. Suppose the base rate
of there being this kind of storm at this location on June 20th is 5%. And
suppose that 3 of the 30 years that it rained on the 22nd there was such a storm
at such a location. Using Bayes’ theorem, we can calculate a revised probability
given the new evidence we have.
P(A|B) = P(B|A) x P(A)
        P(B)
A = it rains June 22nd this year
B = there is a storm at such and such a location on June 20th
P(A) = base rate of 30%
P(B) = base rate of 5%
P(B|A) = probability that there was a storm at that location on June 20th given
that it rained June 22nd - 10%
P(A|B) = 0.1 x 0.3 / 0.05 = .6
Hence, we should now say that there is 60% chance of rain.
The details of Bayes’ Theorem are not important. What is important is just that
following be intuitive: the probability of an event (quantum mechanics excluded)
is not a fixed value, it changes as we revise the pool of evidence we have for
that event. Furthermore, it changes in a way that we can calculate. And finally,
just as it would be a mistake for the weather channel to stop at base rates in
its predictions of future weather events it would likewise be a mistake for us
to stop at the base rate in our calculations of the events we’re interested in.

§5.2 The First Argument Reconsidered
Here’s the argument Street is directing at the negative realist: it is very
unlikely that our moral psychology points to true beliefs, and most of our moral
beliefs correspond to our moral psychology, so probably most of our moral
beliefs are false. 
The problem with this argument is that it ignores the fact that it is always
possible for a random process to be identical in result to another process. When
this happens, however, it does not follow that the two had the same likelihood
of bringing about the result. Probability is relative to pools of evidence. And
there’s no reason to suppose from the information given that each process had
the same pool of evidence saying that it would return the given result.
To see this, consider an analogous argument. Imagine a person, Smith, who
believes only a few very basic mathematical expressions: “2+3=5”, “9-1=8”, and
“8x7=56”. Now imagine that a computer picks three random sentences out of the
set of syntactically correct, basic arithmetical sentences. Suppose it picks the
three sentences Smith believes. Obviously, it is very unlikely that a computer
picking randomly from such a set will produce only true sentences. The set of
syntactically correct mathematical expressions is orders of infinity larger than
the set of true mathematical expressions. And obviously it’s extremely unlikely
that the computer will pick just the sentences that Smith believes.
Nevertheless, it does.
Suppose Smith is aware of this result. Should he doubt his mathematical beliefs
because a computer picking randomly from a large pool of bad choices picked the
same beliefs? Should he conclude that his beliefs have the same chances of being
true as the computer? The answer is no -- not unless Smith picked his beliefs
randomly like the computer. All Smith should be consulting in determining the
probability of his beliefs is the evidence he has for those beliefs. Were they
taught to him by a reliable source? Are there any good proofs for them? Can they
be confirmed empirically, e.g. by counting fingers? If he is consulting such
evidence, then the result from the computer is irrelevant.
Street’s argument from probability is (in all important respects) identical to
the mathematical argument run above. Street has succeeded in showing two things:
that the pool of possible moral judgements dwarfs the pool of true moral
judgments, and that our beliefs correspond to beliefs picked by a random process
from this pool. Note the similarity to Smith’s case: the pool of possible
mathematical judgements dwarfs the pool of true mathematical judgments, and
Smith’s beliefs correspond to beliefs picked by a random process from this pool.
But it seemed obvious in Smith’s case that he should not doubt his mathematical
beliefs just because of this. So too, then, for us and our moral beliefs. Just
because a random, unreliable process (evolution by natural selection) has picked
a moral psychology that corresponds to many of the beliefs we have, it does not
follow that whatever process of belief acquisition we have has the same
likelihood of success as evolution.

§6.0 The Argument from Coincidence
  Street has another argument against the negative realist:
Of course it’s possible that as a matter of sheer chance [that] some large
portion of our evaluative judgements ended up true, due to a happy coincidence
between the realist’s independent evaluative truths and the evaluative
directions in which natural selection tended to push us, but this would require
a fluke of luck that’s not only extremely unlikely, in view of the huge universe
of logically possible evaluative judgements and truths, but also astoundingly
convenient to the realist. Barring such a coincidence, the only conclusion
remaining is that many or most of our evaluative judgements are off track. 122
Her reasoning seems to be as follows. If the negative realist is right, then a
completely random, unreliable process just happened to identify all of the true
moral beliefs. What a happy coincidence! Unfortunately, coincidences require
explanation in order for us to be justified in accepting them. And there is no
such explanation to be had here. The negative realist is in a poor way.

§6.1 Improbability and Mechanism
  The argument of §6.0 is among Street’s most compelling arguments against the
negative realist. But I think it makes mistakes about the relationship between
probability, coincidence, and mechanisms.
To see this, consider a routine lottery drawing.
LOTTERY
I go to buy a PowerBall ticket. Tomorrow comes and a number is drawn: it’s my
number! 
Suppose someone told you this story and that you didn’t have a way of verifying
its truth. Would you say: “Really -- your number was drawn?” (eyebrows raised
with doubt). “That’s a very big coincidence, don’t you think? Tell me, then, if
this really happened as you say, how did it happen? How did that random machine
manage to select exactly your number just when you wanted it to?” Would a
mechanism be called for in such a case? Should you be skeptical about the
LOTTERY story until one was provided? It seems not: you’re claiming that the
process was random and you just got lucky. There is nothing to explain, and
skepticism in such a circumstance does not seem warranted. This even despite the
fact that the odds of picking a winning lottery number are staggeringly low.
Consider a different story.
  WINDSHIELD
I just smashed your windshield ten minutes ago. Shattered it to pieces. But
right after I just felt so bad. So I replaced it. If you go outside now you’ll
see it’s just as you left it
Suppose someone told you this story and you didn’t have a way of verifying its
truth. Here I think you would say: “Really -- you replaced a windshield in just
ten minutes?” (Brow furrowed with suspicion.) “You just happened to have the
right cut of glass for my make and model, and the tools besides? You cleaned up
all that glass? You managed to acquire new inspection stickers and parking
passes to my golf club and put them on the new windshield in the same place?
Tell me then, if this really happened as you say, how did it happen? How did you
manage to do all of this, and in so little time?” Here you really should be
doubtful of the truth of the story until a mechanism was provided. It really
would seem like a giant coincidence if all of the conditions were so as to make
what you claim possible.
Why does WINDSHIELD demand a mechanism while LOTTERY does not? Both stories are
improbable. It is improbable that someone would win the lottery. It is
improbable that someone would repair a shattered windshield in 10 minutes.
Moreover, neither story can be independently verified.
I think the important difference between these stories is that we are assessing
their probabilities from very different evidential bases. For LOTTERY the
evidential base is just the base rate: the number of possible winning
combinations, and the fact that the drawing was random. For WINDSHIELD: the
evidential base is not a base rate, but is rather a large collection of general
causal facts, e.g. that it takes time to find the right windshield for a car and
clean up glass and procure replacement parking passes, etc.
The take-away message from all of this is the following: when something is
picked randomly from a large number of possibilities (and this is all we know
about it) it is indeed improbable. But it is not a coincidence: it does not
demand a mechanism. Mechanisms seem to be demanded only when an event is
rendered unlikely by the causal facts relevant to that event.

§6.2 The Second Argument Reconsidered
The negative realist is committed to the claim that we just got lucky: that much
of our moral psychology just happens to point to true beliefs (the beliefs we
have). Street is claiming that this is an implausible coincidence given the
random manner in which our moral psychology evolved. Hence, it should not be
believed.
I want to press Street on whether or not the negative realist is in fact
committed to an implausible coincidence. In the previous section we examined two
stories (LOTTERY and WINDSHIELD) to dig deeper into the relationship between
probability, coincidence, and mechanism. Which of those stories does the
negative realist’s account more closely resemble? It seems LOTTERY, not
WINDSHIELD. There are two reasons for this. First, the negative realist claims
that our moral psychology was picked randomly, much as the lottery ticket was
picked randomly. Second, the negative realist holds that what was picked
randomly corresponds to what we picked by another process (our moral beliefs),
much as the lottery ticket corresponds to the lottery number picked by another
process. It’s not as if Street is claiming that the negative realist is guilty
of endorsing a view that is causally inconsistent -- as WINDSHIELD seemed to be.
If she were, then things would be different. But she isn’t, and it’s hard to see
how she could be.
Recall, then, that LOTTERY did not seem to describe an implausible coincidence:
the kind of story which requires a mechanism in order for us to be justified in
accepting it. Given, then, the marked similarities between LOTTERY and the
negative realist’s claim, it would seem that the burden is on Street to
demonstrate why these cases should be treated differently. Why does one not
describe a coincidence while the other does? Baring such a demonstration, it
seems that we should treat these cases the same and say that the negative
realist is not in fact committed to an implausible coincidence.

§7.0 No Epistemic Base
  Recall what was said when the notion of a moral psychology was first
introduced: people seem to often (if only tacitly) rely upon their moral
psychology or phenomenology as the evidence for their moral beliefs. Street
actually thinks this statement doesn’t go far enough:
The widespread consensus that the method of reflective equilibrium, broadly
understood, is our sole means of proceeding in ethics is an acknowledgment of
this fact: ultimately, we can test our evaluative judgements only by testing
their consistency with our other evaluative judgements, combined of course with
judgements about the (non-evaluative) facts. [emphasis mine] 124
The problem for the negative realist, then, is this. Moral psychology seems to
be the sole source of evidence for moral claims. But if the negative realist is
right, then moral psychology is extremely unreliable -- i.e. not a good source
of evidence. Hence, it would seem that there is no good evidence for moral
beliefs. Hence, moral beliefs are unjustified, they do not constitute knowledge,
and realism is false.

§7.1 Reply
  The negative realist’s reply has to be that moral psychology is not the sole
source of evidence for moral claims. Fortunately for the negative realist, this
claim is weakly defended. Street’s only argument on its behalf is to gesture at
the “widespread consensus that the method of reflective equilibrium [. . .] is
our sole means of proceeding in ethics”. She provides no evidence that there is
such consensus, nor argument that such consensus would be justified if it
existed, nor does she say anything about why such consensus would entail that
there is no evidence for moral claims besides other moral claims. Hence, I say
that this argument is weak.
  Now, there is no question that some people believe as Street does. Consider
Scanlon:
[I]t seems to me that [reflective equilibrium], properly understood, is in fact
the best way of making up one’s mind about moral matters and about many other
subjects. Indeed, it is the only defensible method: apparent alternatives to it
are illusory. (2002: 149)
But this strong view is not without its detractors. A brief survey of the
literature reveals Hare (1973), Singer (1974), Lyons (1975), Brandt (1979,
1990), Copp (1985), Cummins (1998), and Stitch (1990) all in opposition to the
doctrine. Consider the conclusion of a recent sustained examination of the
method due to McGrath and Kelly:
[I]n order to arrive at a defensible account [of reflective equilibrium], the
proponent of the method should opt for a normative characterization of the
starting point. Of course, once that move is made, [. . .] it is natural to
think that the most interesting part of the story concerns not the pursuit of
equilibrium itself, but rather what makes it the case that certain starting
points are more reasonable than others, and how we manage to recognize or grasp
such facts. In that sense at least, it seems that reflective equilibrium is not
enough. (2010, p50)
Applied to the methodology of ethics, then, McGrath and Kelly would seem to
admit that reflective equilibrium is only a defensible method of proceeding if
there is already a way of justifying our starting point -- one which would not
just involve checking our moral views against each other.
And all this is to say nothing of the history of philosophy. What of Kant who
believed that reason was capable of teaching us right from wrong -- of
identifying the categorical imperatives? (Metaphysics of Morals) What of
Aristotle who believed that the best evidence of right action were the actions
of the virtuous man? (Citation?) And what of the contemporary scholars who
endorse either a Kantian or a virtue ethics? ( Citations?) Such figures all seem
agreed upon the claim that there is evidence for moral beliefs besides our moral
psychology. Surely if survey were called for to adjudicate this position, such
philosophers should not be excluded.
  Claims weakly defended are justifiably dismissed -- Street’s among them.
Baring better evidence, this argument should not give the negative realist
pause.

§8. Conclusion
  I conclude that the negative realist escapes Street’s so-called “Darwinian
Dilemma” unscathed. At least so far as the arguments of her paper are concerned,
it’s not obvious that moral realism runs afoul of evolutionary biology. These
two domains may yet be mutually consistent.
